---
path: "/projects"
name: "High-Reliability Teleoperation Assistance based on Deep Learning and Human-Computer Interaction"
type: "research"
status: "ongoing"
---

- Younggeol Cho, <u>Hyeonggeun Yun</u>, Jinwon Lee, Arim Ha, and Jihyeok Yun
> Due to the limitations of autonomous driving technology, teleoperation is used extensively in hazardous environments such as military operations. However, the performance of teleoperated driving is primarily influenced by the driver's skill level. In other words, unskilled drivers need extensive training for teleoperation in harsh and unusual environments, such as off-road. In this letter, we propose GoonDAE, a novel denoising-based real-time driver assistance method that enables stable teleoperated off-road driving. We introduce a denoising autoencoder (DAE) based on a skip-connected long short-term memory (LSTM) to assist the unskilled driver control input through denoising. In this approach, it is assumed that the control input of an unskilled driver is equivalent to that of a skilled driver with noise. We train GoonDAE using the skilled driver control inputs and sensor data collected from our simulated off-road driving environment. Our experiments in the simulated off-road environment show that GoonDAE significantly improves the driving stability of unskilled drivers.

- <u>Hyeonggeun Yun</u>, Younggeol Cho, Jinwon Lee, Arim Ha, and Jihyeok Yun
> Unmanned ground vehicles (UGVs) in unstructured environments mostly operate through teleoperation. To enable stable teleoperated driving in unstructured environments, some research has suggested driver assistance and evaluation methods that involve user studies, which can be costly and require lots of time and effort. A simulation model-based approach has been proposed to complement the user study; however, the models on teleoperated driving do not account for unstructured environments. Our proposed solution involves simulation models of teleoperated driving for drivers that utilize a deep generative model. Initially, we build a teleoperated driving simulator to imitate unstructured environments based on previous research and collect driving data from drivers. Then, we design and implement the simulation models based on a conditional variational autoencoder (CVAE). Our evaluation results demonstrate that the proposed teleoperated driving model can generate data by simulating the driver appropriately in unstructured canyon terrains.

- <u>Hyeonggeun Yun</u>, Younggeol Cho, Arim Ha, and Jihyeok Yun
> This paper presents design guidelines for teleoperated driving interfaces within computational driver assistance systems for unstructured environments. The purpose of the guidelines is to manage the unpredictability of computational model-based assistance in unstructured environments in order to reduce user workload. Thus, we conducted a user study to evaluate workload and obtain insights into both the advantages and disadvantages of the computational driver assistance system in order to develop the guidelines. The study utilized a deep learning-based driver assistance method in simulated environments to observe the workload of users while teleoperated driving with the assistance method. Based on the user study, we proposed guidelines for teleoperated driving interface with computational driver assistance systems. We anticipate that the proposed guidelines could improve the understanding of computational driver assistance systems and reduce the workload of teleoperated driving in unstructured environments, thereby enhancing driver’s trust as well as comfort.

- <u>Hyeonggeun Yun</u>
> Teleoperated driving is a leading approach for operating unmanned ground vehicles (UGVs) in unstructured environments, where driving stability is crucial. However, time delays may compromise this stability. In this letter, we propose a computational delay compensation method based on deep learning models to address the control transmission delay. Initially, we collect teleoperated driving data from simulated unstructured environments and then design a delay compensation method utilizing time-series forecasting models. This method generates future control inputs equivalent to the delayed time steps. Our evaluation demonstrates the possibility of our delay compensation method for teleoperated driving in unstructured environments.

